Understanding the mechanisms behind human mobility patterns is crucial to improve our ability for predict the spread of infectious diseases. The modified gravity model and radiation model are the most common models in this study. The modified gravity model, based on Newton’s law of universal gravitation, was used to predict human mobility between two locations by considering their population sizes and the distance between them. However, this model has certain limitations, such as requiring previous mobility data to fit the its parameters, and it is unable to predict human mobility between locations where systematic mobility data is unavailable. In this study, the focus is the modified gravity model explained by the radiation model to derive the distance exponent parameter in the modified gravity model as a function of the properties of a population landscape to overcome the lack of systematic mobility data.

 Moreover, the radiation model is used to predict human mobility between locations to overcome the complexity of studying human mobility and the lack of systematic mobility data. It also connects with the multi-patch SIRD model, where the population gets split into the compartments of susceptible, infected, recovered, and dead to study how human mobility impacts the spread of infectious diseases in the real world, such as the spread of COVID-19. This method can be used to study how human mobility influences the spread of any human-to-human infectious disease in the absence of systematic mobility data, and without considering mobility restrictions such as lockdowns. It also serves as a useful tool for informed decision-making in current and future public health.
